on our first lesson on cyber
security 2 we're going to talk about
the introduction to penetration testing concepts
here is the flow of our lesson first we're
going to talk about what is penetration testing
second we're going to talk about adopting the
hacker mindset third we're going to talk about the
reasons for penetration testing and fourth we're
going to talk about who performs penetration tests
so what is penetration testing penetration
testing is a highly skilled discipline and
organizations often try to have experienced
penetration testers further testing efforts
penetration testers have the goal to find
vulnerabilities risks or possible threats
that the company may encounter on their systems
cyber security professionals usually have this
goals or what we call the CIA triad and it
is well-known model to describe the goals of
information security first the CIA triad consists
of confidentiality integrity and availability
now we are going to define
this tree first confidentiality
it seeks to prevent unauthorized
access to information or systems
second integrity it seeks to prevent unauthorized
modification of information or systems and third
availability it seeks to ensure that legitimate
use of information and systems remain possible
attackers and therefore penetration testers
seek to undermine these goals and achieve
three corresponding goals of their own
the attacker's goals are known as the DAD triad
which stands for disclosure alteration and denial
now we're going to define the dad triad
first is disclosure it is the opposite
of confidentiality it seeks to gain
unauthorized access to information
and systems next is alteration it seeks to make
unauthorized changes to information or systems
and third denial which seeks to prevent
legitimate use of information or systems
if you're new to cyber security this is the time
to understand the elements of the CIA triad cyber
security defenders do spend the majority of their
time thinking in these terms designing controls
and defenses to protect information and systems
against a wide array of known and unknown threats
penetration testers must take a very different
approach in their thinking instead of trying to
defend against all possible threats they only
need to find a single vulnerability that they
might exploit to achieve their goals to find these
flaws they must think like the adversary who might
attack the system in the real world this approach
is commonly known as adopting the hacker mindset
before we explore the hacker mindset
in terms of technical systems
let's explore it using an
example from the physical world
if you were responsible for the physical
security of an electronic store you might
consider a variety of threats and implement
controls designed to counter those attacks
you'd be worried about shoplifting robbery and
employee embezzlement among other threats and
you might build a system of security controls that
seeks to prevent those threats from materializing
these controls might include the following items
security cameras in high risk areas
auditing of cash register receipts
and tough detectors at main entrance and exit
of the store as well as exit alarms on emergency
exits that's the hacker mindset you need to
think like a criminal there's an important
corollary to the hacker mindset that is important
for both attackers and defenders to keep in mind
when conducting a penetration test or a real-world
attack the attacker only needs to win once
they might attempt hundreds or thousands of
potential attacks against a target the fact
that an organization's security defenses block
99.99 of those attacks is irrelevant if one of the
attacks succeed cyber security professionals need
to win every time attackers only need to win once